registry: add reference (#22497)
docker/docker.github.io: content/reference/api/registry/_index.md

Reviewer: Just curious, is there a reason we aren’t using an OpenAPI spec to generate this documentation? It might help reduce complexity, ensure consistency, and make it easier to integrate with Redocly like the other references are

---

> title: Docker Registry HTTP API V2

Reviewer 2: This API is obsolete, and replaced by the OCI distribution spec; is there a reason we want to duplicate the specification?

Reviewer 3: Not all of the spec endpoints are supported by us. We are just providing documentation of the OCI endpoints that are supported with our version of distribution.

Reviewer 3: @craig-osterhout I'm totally okay with that name so it doesn't get confused.

---
title: Supported registry API for Docker Hub
linktitle: Registry API
description: "Supported registry API endpoints."
keywords: registry, on-prem, images, tags, repository, distribution, api, advanced
---

## Introduction

Docker Hub is an OCI-compliant registry, which means it adheres to the open
standards defined by the Open Container Initiative (OCI) for distributing
container images. This ensures compatibility with a wide range of tools and
platforms in the container ecosystem. For full details, refer to the [OCI
Distribution
Specification](https://github.com/opencontainers/distribution-spec).

> This topic provides a reference of selected registry API endpoints that are
> supported by Docker Hub. It does not cover the entire OCI Distribution
> Specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This reference documents the Docker Hub-supported subset of the Registry HTTP API V2. 
It focuses on pulling and pushing images, and does not cover the full OCI Distribution Specification.
```

Reviewer: small rewrite for clarity

## Overview

> All endpoints will be prefixed
> by the API version and the repository name:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All endpoints are prefixed
by the API version and the repository name:
```

```

For example, an API endpoint that will work with the `library/ubuntu`
repository, the URI prefix will be:

```text
/v2/library/ubuntu/
```

This scheme provides rich access control over various operations and methods
using the URI prefix and HTTP methods that can be controlled in variety of
ways.

Classically, repository names have always been two path components where each
path component is less than 30 characters. The V2 registry API does not
enforce this. The rules for a repository name are as follows:

1. A repository name is broken up into _path components_. A component of a
   repository name must be at least one lowercase, alpha-numeric characters,
   optionally separated by periods, dashes or underscores. More strictly, it
   must match the regular expression `[a-z0-9]+(?:[._-][a-z0-9]+)*`.
2. If a repository  name has two or more path components, they must be separated
   by a forward slash ("/").
3. The total length of a repository name, including slashes, must be less than
   256 characters.

These name requirements only apply to the registry API and should accept a
superset of what is supported by other Docker ecosystem components.

## Pulling an image

> An "image" is a combination of a JSON manifest and individual layer files. The

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An image is composed of a JSON manifest and individual layer files. The
```

process of pulling an image centers around retrieving these two components.

The first step in pulling an image is to retrieve the manifest. For reference,
the relevant manifest fields for the registry are the following:

> | field    | description                                    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Field    | Description                                    |
```

|----------|------------------------------------------------|
| name      | The name of the image.                         |
| tag       | The tag for this version of the image.         |

> | fsLayers  | A list of layer descriptors (including digest) |
> | signature | A JWS used to verify the manifest content      |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| fsLayers  | A list of layer descriptors (including digest). |
| signature | A JWS used to verify the manifest content.      |
```

When the manifest is in hand, the client must verify the signature to ensure
the names and layers are valid. Once confirmed, the client will then use the
digests to download the individual layers. Layers are stored in as blobs in
the V2 registry API, keyed by their digest.

> ### Pulling an image manifest

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Get image manifest
```

The image manifest can be fetched with the following URL:

```text
GET /v2/<name>/manifests/<reference>
```

The `name` and `reference` parameter identify the image and are required. The
reference may include a tag or digest.

The client should include an Accept header indicating which manifest content
types it supports. In a successful response, the Content-Type

> header will indicate which manifest type is being returned.

Reviewer: should we have a response?

ex: 

```json
{
  "schemaVersion": 2,
  "config": { "digest": "sha256:..." },
  "layers": [
    { "digest": "sha256:..." },
    ...
  ]
}

A `404 Not Found` response will be returned if the image is unknown to the
registry. If the image exists and the response is successful, the image
manifest will be returned.

```text
    {
       "name": <name>,
       "tag": <tag>,
       "fsLayers": [
          {
             "blobSum": <digest>
          },
          ...
        ]
       ],
       "history": <v1 images>,
       "signature": <JWS>
    }
```

The client should verify the returned manifest signature for authenticity
before fetching layers.

#### Existing manifests

The image manifest can be checked for existence with the following URL:

```text
HEAD /v2/<name>/manifests/<reference>
```

The `name` and `reference` parameter identify the image and are required. The
reference may include a tag or digest.

A `404 Not Found` response will be returned if the image is unknown to the
registry. If the image exists and the response is successful the response will
be as follows:

```text
200 OK
Content-Length: <length of manifest>
Docker-Content-Digest: <digest>
```

> ### Pulling a Layer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Get a layer
```

Layers are stored in the blob portion of the registry, keyed by digest.
Pulling a layer is carried out by a standard HTTP request. The URL is as
follows:

```text
GET /v2/<name>/blobs/<digest>
```

Access to a layer will be gated by the `name` of the repository but is
identified uniquely in the registry by `digest`.

> This endpoint may issue a 307 (302 for <HTTP 1.1) redirect to another service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This endpoint may issue a `307` (`302` for <HTTP 1.1) redirect to another service
```

Pushing an image works in the opposite order as a pull. After assembling the
image manifest, the client must first push the individual layers. When the
layers are fully pushed into the registry, the client should upload the signed
manifest.

The details of each step of the process are covered in the following sections.

### Pushing a layer

All layer uploads use two steps to manage the upload process. The first step
starts the upload in the registry service, returning a URL to carry out the
second step. The second step uses the upload URL to transfer the actual data.
Uploads are started with a POST request which returns a URL that can be used
to push data and check upload status.

The `Location` header will be used to communicate the upload location after
each request. While it won't change in the this specification, clients should
use the most recent value returned by the API.

#### Starting an upload

To begin the process, a POST request should be issued in the following format:

```text
POST /v2/<name>/blobs/uploads/
```

The parameters of this request are the image namespace under which the layer
will be linked. Responses to this request are covered in the following sections.

> #### Existing layers

Reviewer: should this step be done first technically? same with the existing image one above? it might make more sense to check for existing ones beforehand

a blob mount instead of an upload, a POST request should be issued in the
following format:

```text
POST /v2/<name>/blobs/uploads/?mount=<digest>&from=<repository name>
Content-Length: 0
```

If the blob is successfully mounted, the client will receive a `201 Created`
response:

```text
201 Created
Location: /v2/<name>/blobs/<digest>
Content-Length: 0
Docker-Content-Digest: <digest>
```

The `Location` header will contain the registry URL to access the accepted
layer file. The `Docker-Content-Digest` header returns the canonical digest of
the uploaded blob which may differ from the provided digest. Most clients may
ignore the value but if it is used, the client should verify the value against
the uploaded blob data.

If a mount fails due to invalid repository or digest arguments, the registry
will fall back to the standard upload behavior and return a `202 Accepted` with
the upload URL in the `Location` header:

```text
202 Accepted
Location: /v2/<name>/blobs/uploads/<uuid>
Range: bytes=0-<offset>
Content-Length: 0
Docker-Upload-UUID: <uuid>
```

This behavior is consistent with older versions of the registry, which do not
recognize the repository mount query parameters.

> Note: a client may issue a HEAD request to check existence of a blob in a source
> repository to distinguish between the registry not supporting blob mounts and
> the blob not existing in the expected repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!NOTE]
>
> A client may issue a `HEAD` request to check existence of a blob in a source
repository to distinguish between the registry not supporting blob mounts and
the blob not existing in the expected repository.
```

#### Errors

> If an 502, 503 or 504 error is received, the client should assume that the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If an `502`, `503` or `504` error is received, the client should assume that the
```
